EdwardsLab
==========

Code from the Edwards lab, including bioinformatics, image analysis and more. All this code is created and maintained by folks at Rob Edwards' bioinformatics lab at SDSU.

For more information about the Edwards' lab see http://edwards.sdsu.edu/research.

We use this repository to share our code and data with each other, and with the world.

We make all this code available to everyone to use. If you find errors or bugs please let Rob Edwards know ... see the above URL for contact information.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is a Python library to calculate average nucleotide identities using a range of different methods.

The different methods are blastn(BLAST) and nucmer(MUMmer). 
Currently, nucmer algorithm is assumed to be working(tests to verify correctness will take place) 
The blastn ANI algorithm is currently not working correctly.

The most current and applicable program is aniGUI.py

------------------------------
Operating System Requirements
------------------------------
Linux or OS X Operating System
(Tested on OS X)


--------------------------------
Installed Software Requirements
--------------------------------

Python version 2.7 or greater
------------------------------
Installed by default on OS X
https://www.python.org/downloads/

BLAST version 2.2.29 or higher
--------------------------------
Directions:
1. Download ftp://ftp.ncbi.nih.gov/blast/executables/LATEST/ncbi-blast-2.6.0+.dmg
  a. ftp://ftp.ncbi.nih.gov/blast/executables/LATEST/
  b. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/news/1-7-2014-blast-2-2-29/
2. Check md5: 19397736eafbb9e42d6541dc2797523a  ncbi-blast-2.6.0+.dmg
3. Right click and open ncbi-blast-2.6.0+.dmg
  a. If one double clicks the left mousepad twice to open, it will probably not install because of default permissions

MUMmer version 3.23 or higher
------------------------------
Directions:
1. Download MUMmer (http://sourceforge.net/projects/mummer/files/mummer/3.23/MUMmer3.23.tar.gz/stats/timeline)
https://sourceforge.net/projects/mummer/files/mummer/
2. Check md5: ?

In terminal:
3. "cd MUMmer3.x"
4. "tar -xvzf MUMmer3.x"
5. "make check"
6. "make install"


------------------
File Requirements
------------------
Directions:
1. Download ftp://ftp.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/genomes/archive/old_refseq/Bacteria/all.fna.tar.gz 
2. Unzip all.fna
3. In terminal:
	(Tested)
	a.Change directory to aniGUI.py
	b.Inputpython aniGUI.py
or
	(Not Tested)
	a. Double click on aniGUI.py
4. A GUI should open


----------------
GUI Directions
----------------
This will open a GUI to run the program. 

Left Buttons
------------
These optional buttons can help the user open directories and input the correct directory location names in the middle red boxes

Middle Red Boxes
----------------
Red Box 1(Top box):
Input directory location of all.fna or use left box to point to it and the program will fill out the directory location name for you.
Red Box 2:
Input directory location of the installed BLAST directory or use left box to point to it and the program will fill out the directory location name for you.
Red Box 3(Middle box):
Input location of the installed MUMMer directory or use left box to point to it and the program will fill out the directory location name for you.
Red Box 4:
Input location where to save delta files from MUMMer output, or use left box to point to it and the program will fill out the directory location name for you.
Red Box 5(Bottom Box):
Input location where to save percent ANI files from ANI output, or use left box to point to it and the program will fill out the directory location name for you.

Right Check Boxes
------------------
(Tested, complete)
Reformat, rename and concatenate:
Prerequisite: Downloaded all.fna
When checked, this will reformat, rename and concatenate all.fna to be able to be used later in the program. 
This concatinates multiple .fna files into one, deletes the other multiple .fna files and renames the one .fna file to the same name as its parent, without calling it junior

(Tested, complete)
Move modified files to Blast/MUMmer Directories:
Prerequisite: Ran Reformat, rename and concatinate option on all.fna
When checked, this will move the reformatted, renamed and concatinated all.fna files to the directories specified in Red Box 2 and Red Box 3

(Not completed)
Execute Blast:
When checked, this will call blastn on the files in the respective directory specified in Red Box 2

(Not complete)
Execute MUMmer:
When checked, this will call nucmer on the files in the respective directory specified in Red Box 3

(Not complete)
Create output for SQLite:
When checked, this will create a statement to create a SQL lite database respective to the output generated by this program

(Not complete)
Create output for JSON:
When checked, this will create a statement to create a JSON seed respective to the output generated by this program


----------------
Test Information
----------------
Test case documenation will be available at a further date


----------------------------
Current Bugs or Known Issues
----------------------------
1. Directories with spaces do not work correctly
   a. For example, /Users/jon/Desktop/all fna will not work correctly, but /Users/jon/Desktop/all.fna will
2. If the user has checked Move modified files to Blast/MUMmer Directories, the directory should not already exist. 
   a. If the directory without children exists, the program will delete it. 
   b. If there are any children to the specified parent, unknown behavior will happen as it has not been tested yet.
3. User must select all.fna in the first Red Box or the reformat, rename and concatenate program will not work correctly 


---------
Authors
----------
Jon Beacher
Gina Benavides
Rob Edwards


--------
License 
--------
The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright (c) 2014 Rob Edwards

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

